ARROW-12550: [Website] Write blog post describing new Rust dev processes (#107)
apache/arrow-site: _posts/2021-04-27-rust-dev-workflow.md

this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
{% endcomment %}
-->

The Apache Arrow Rust community is excited to announce that its migration to a new development workflow is now complete! If you're considering Rust as a language for working with columnar data, read on and see how your use case might benefit from our new and improved project setup.

In recent months, members of the community have been working closely with Arrow's [Project Management Committee][1] and other contributors to expand the set of available workflows for Arrow implementations. The goal was to define a new development process that ultimately:

> - Enables a faster release cadence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enables a faster release cadence and versioning scheme that better matches Cargo's SemVer expectations
```

Author: > I think it looks great. Thank you @returnString !
> 
> I left some suggestions that I am not 100% thrilled with -- what I was trying to do was to highlight the specific changes that we hope to make (namely using crate versioning more in line with semver, as well as centralizing on a single tool)
> 
> However, it makes the initial bullet points more verbose. I do not feel strongly about this.
> 
> All in all, this is really nice

I've taken the spirit of these suggestions and tried to incorporate them without affecting the brevity of the bullet points too significantly - SemVer was worth mentioning for sure!

> - Encourages maximum participation from the wider community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encourages maximum participation from the wider community by using only Github (rather than both Github and JIRA)
```

- Ensures that we continue to uphold the tenets of [The Apache Way][2]

If you're just here for the highlights, the major outcomes of these discussions are as follows:
- The Rust projects have moved to separate repositories, outside the main Arrow [monorepo][9]
	- [arrow-rs][7] for the core Arrow implementation in Rust
	- [arrow-datafusion][8] for DataFusion and Ballista (more on these projects below!)

> - The Rust community will use GitHub Issues for tracking feature development and issues, replacing the ASF Jira instance

Reviewer 2: `ASF` is used a couple times, worth defining?

But why, as a community, have we decided to change our processes? Let's take a slightly more in-depth look at the Rust implementation's needs.

## Project Structure
The Rust implementation of Arrow actually consists of several distinct projects, or in Rust parlance, ["crates"][3]. In addition to the Arrow crate that contains core functionality such as the in-memory format and inter-process communication, we also maintain:
- [DataFusion][4]: an extensible in-memory query execution engine using Arrow as its format

> - [Ballista][5]: a distributed compute platform built on DataFusion, with Apache Spark compatibility

Reviewer 2: I was unaware of Spark compatibility and couldn't find that claim on a very cursory search.
Is it compatible with Spark or comparable to Spark?

Author: It seems I imagined this - can't see it in any of the reference material I was looking at yesterday. Will remove!

## Community Participation
All Apache projects are built on volunteer contribution; it's a core principle of both the ASF and open-source software development more broadly. One point of friction that was observed in the previous workflow for the Rust community in particular was the requirement for issues to be logged in Arrow's Jira project. This step required would-be contributors to first register an account, and then receive a permissions grant to manage tickets.

To streamline this process for new community members, we've taken the decision to migrate to GitHub Issues for tracking both new development work and known bugs that need addressing, and bootstrapped our new repositories by importing their respective tickets from Jira. We hope that this strikes a better balance between organisation and accessibility for prospective contributors.

## Get Involved

> To further improve the onboarding flow for new Arrow contributors, we've begun the process of labelling select issues as "good first issue" in [arrow-rs][11] and [arrow-datafusion][12]. These issues are typically small in scope, but still serve as valuable contributions to the project, and help acclimatise new community members to our development workflows and tools.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To further improve the onboarding flow for new Arrow contributors, we have started the process of labeling select issues as "good first issue" in [arrow-rs][11] and [arrow-datafusion][12]. These issues are small in scope but still serve as valuable contributions to the project. They also help new community members to get familiar with our development workflows and tools.
```
Some stylistic suggestions

Author: Ah, the old single vs double L, a classic in English dialect wars! Lemme scan through the blog post history, I'll standardise (heh, I'm picking a side already with that S) on either British or American English depending on which is more common. There's probably other bits that need unifying if so.

I'll try and incorporate these suggestions in some fashion, clarity is always a good goal 👍

distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
{% endcomment %}
-->

The Apache Arrow Rust community is excited to announce that its migration to a new development workflow is now complete! If you're considering Rust as a language for working with columnar data, read on and see how your use case might benefit from our new and improved project setup.

In recent months, members of the community have been working closely with Arrow's [Project Management Committee][1] and other contributors to expand the set of available workflows for Arrow implementations. The goal was to define a new development process that ultimately:
- Enables a faster release cadence that adheres to [SemVer][15] where appropriate
- Encourages maximum participation from the wider community with unified tooling
- Ensures that we continue to uphold the tenets of [The Apache Way][2]

If you're just here for the highlights, the major outcomes of these discussions are as follows:

> - The Rust projects have moved to separate repositories, outside the main Arrow [monorepo][9]

Author: I was trying to avoid repeating the word repository too often - difficult in a post on dev and release workflows, admittedly 😅

	- [arrow-rs][7] for the core Arrow implementation in Rust
	- [arrow-datafusion][8] for DataFusion and Ballista (more on these projects below!)
- The Rust community will use GitHub Issues for tracking feature development and issues, replacing the Jira instance maintained by the Apache Software Foundation (ASF)

> But why, as a community, have we decided to change our processes? Let's take a slightly more in-depth look at the Rust implementation's needs.

Reviewer 2: Possibly worth mentioning that this is a shift back towards the process used by Ballista?

Adds the context of "going back to a thing that worked" rather than "let's try something new".

## Project Structure
The Rust implementation of Arrow actually consists of several distinct projects, or in Rust parlance, ["crates"][3]. In addition to the Arrow crate that contains core functionality such as the in-memory format and inter-process communication, we also maintain:
- [DataFusion][4]: an extensible in-memory query execution engine using Arrow as its format

> - [Ballista][5]: a distributed compute platform, powered by Apache Arrow and DataFusion

Reviewer 4: We have more than 3 crates; within `arrow-rs` we have 4 or 5. This split is more related to the nature of these crates (AFAIK).

Ultimately, the decision was made to split the Rust crates into two separate repositories: [arrow-rs][7] for the core Arrow functionality, and [arrow-datafusion][8] for DataFusion and Ballista. There's still work to be done on determining the exact release workflows for the latter, but this leaves us in a much better position to meet the broader Rust community's expectations of crate versioning and stability.

## Community Participation
All Apache projects are built on volunteer contribution; it's a core principle of both the ASF and open-source software development more broadly. One point of friction that was observed in the previous workflow for the Rust community in particular was the requirement for issues to be logged in Arrow's Jira project. This step required would-be contributors to first register an account, and then receive a permissions grant to manage tickets.

> To streamline this process for new community members, we've taken the decision to migrate to GitHub Issues for tracking both new development work and known bugs that need addressing, and bootstrapped our new repositories by importing their respective tickets from Jira. We hope that this strikes a better balance between organization and accessibility for prospective contributors.

Reviewer 5: It might help to have language that opening issues before PRs are submitted is recommended to let others know you are working on it and discuss technical issues before work is put into a PR.  i.e. this is more a tooling change then anything else.

Reviewer 6: @returnString If you could address this point and update the publish date I think we can go ahead and get this published.

Author: Thanks for the feedback @emkornfield! I've incorporated it into that section.

@andygrove I think we're good to go 😄
